
Welcome to WaveShow! This Is an audio visualizer that allows the user to see the waveforms generated by audio files.  
This is done by graphing the frequency (in Hz) in the horizontal axis and the amplitude in the vertical axis.
This creates the opportunity for those who are hard of hearing to have a way to interact with music, 
albeit in a visual sense rather than an auditory sense. 

Users are encouraged to use the tutorial notebook in this repository and the example notebooks provided. 
Please remember that the songs used in those notebooks are examples and you can use any song or audio file 
of your choice as long as it is a WAV file.

To use WaveShow please follow the instructions below:
Open terminal (for Mac users) or type "CMD" into Windows taskbar (in Windows).
Type the following commands into your terminal to install the following packages:

pip install numpy
pip install math
pip install wave
pip install pygame

Now that your packages are installed you can use WaveShow!

As mentioned above, for those who are hard of hearing, WaveShow provides the opportunity to
enjoy music visually by seeing the frequency and amplitude of their songs of choice
plotted in real-time. Furthermore, users can change the color of the waves which allows
the user to match a specific instrument in a song to a color, and many instruments as a
blend of colors by taking the average of these colors in RGB. An example of this is
provided below:

piano - red (255,0,0)
guitar - dark blue (0,17,255)
bass - sky blue (135,206,235)
drums - olive green (128,128,0)
Average color = (65.75, 151.5, 86.25)

This allows those who are hard of hearing to visualize all instruments in a song.
Although this works better for individual instruments, an average blend of colors
is also aided by a Fourier transform which is also provided as part of this program.
The website below has RBG color codes which provide the numbers in RGB that correspond
to your color(s) of choice:

https://www.rapidtables.com/web/color/RGB_Color.html
